
“Kill the pig. Cut her throat. Spill her blood.”
Yet as the words became audible, the procession reached the steepest
part of the mountain, and in a minute or two the chant had died away.
Piggy snivelled and Simon shushed him quickly as though he had spoken too loudly in church.
Jack, his face smeared with clays, reached the top first and hailed Ralph
excitedly, with lifted spear.
“Look! We’ve killed a pig—we stole up on them—we got in a circle—”
Voices broke in from the hunters.
“We got in a circle—”
“We crept up—”
“The pig squealed—”
The twins stood with the pig swinging between them, dropping black
gouts on the rock. They seemed to share one wide, ecstatic grin. Jack
had too many things to tell Ralph at once. Instead, he danced a step or
two, then remembered his dignity and stood still, grinning. He noticed
blood on his hands and grimaced distastefully, looked for something on
which to clean them, then wiped them on his shorts and laughed.
Ralph spoke.
“You let the fire go out.”
Jack checked, vaguely irritated by this irrelevance but too happy to let
it worry him.
“We can light the fire again. You should have been with us, Ralph. We
had a smashing time. The twins got knocked over—”
“We hit the pig—”
“—I fell on top—”
“I cut the pig’s throat,” said Jack, proudly, and yet twitched as he said it. “Can I borrow yours, Ralph, to make a nick in the hilt?”
The boys chattered and danced. The twins continued to grin.
“There was lashings of blood,” said Jack, laughing and shuddering,
“you should have seen it!”
“We’ll go hunting every day—”
Ralph spoke again, hoarsely. He had not moved.
“You let the fire go out.”
This repetition made Jack uneasy. He looked at the twins and then
back at Ralph.
“We had to have them in the hunt,” he said, “or there wouldn’t have
been enough for a ring.”
He flushed, conscious of a fault.
“The fire’s only been out an hour or two. We can light up again—”
He noticed Ralph’s scarred nakedness, and the sombre silence of all
four of them. He sought, charitable in his happiness, to include them
in the thing that had happened. His mind was crowded with memories;
memories of the knowledge that had come to them when they closed in
on the struggling pig, knowledge that they had outwitted a living thing,
imposed their will upon it, taken away its life like a long satisfying drink.
He spread his arms wide.
“You should have seen the blood!”
The hunters were more silent now, but at this they buzzed again. Ralph
flung back his hair. One arm pointed at the empty horizon. His voice was loud and savage, and struck them into silence.
“There was a ship.”
Jack, faced at once with too many awful implications, ducked away
from them. He laid a hand on the pig and drew his knife. Ralph brought
his arm down, fist clenched, and his voice shook.
“There was a ship. Out there. You said you’d keep the fire going and
you let it out!” He took a step toward Jack, who turned and faced him.
“They might have seen us. We might have gone home—”
This was too bitter for Piggy, who forgot his timidity in the agony of his
loss. He began to cry out, shrilly:
“You and your blood, Jack Merridew! You and your hunting! We might
have gone home—”
Ralph pushed Piggy to one side.
“I was chief, and you were going to do what I said. You talk. But you
can’t even build huts—then you go off hunting and let out the fire—”
He turned away, silent for a moment. Then his voice came again on a
peak of feeling.
“There was a ship—”
One of the smaller hunters began to wail. The dismal truth was filtering
through to everybody. Jack went very red as he hacked and pulled at the
pig.
“The job was too much. We needed everyone.”
Ralph turned.
“You could have had everyone when the shelters were finished. But
you had to hunt—”
“We needed meat.”
Jack stood up as he said this, the bloodied knife in his hand. The two
boys faced each other. There was the brilliant world of hunting, tactics,
fierce exhilaration, skill; and there was the world of longing and baffled
commonsense. Jack transferred the knife to his left hand and smudged
blood over his forehead as he pushed down the plastered hair.
Piggy began again.
“You didn’t ought to have let that fire out. You said you’d keep the
smoke going—”
This from Piggy, and the wails of agreement from some of the hunters,
drove Jack to violence. The bolting look came into his blue eyes. He took
a step, and able at last to hit someone, stuck his fist into Piggy’s stomach.
Piggy sat down with a grunt. Jack stood over him. His voice was vicious
with humiliation.
“You would, would you? Fatty!”
Ralph made a step forward and Jack smacked Piggy’s head. Piggy’s
glasses flew off and tinkled on the rocks. Piggy cried out in terror:
“My specs!”
He went crouching and feeling over the rocks but Simon, who got there
first, found them for him. Passions beat about Simon on the mountain-top
with awful wings.
“One side’s broken.”
Piggy grabbed and put on the glasses. He looked malevolently at Jack.
“I got to have them specs. Now I only got one eye. Jus’ you wait—”
Jack made a move toward Piggy who scrambled away till a great rock
lay between them. He thrust his head over the top and glared at Jack
through his one flashing glass.
“Now I only got one eye. Just you wait—”
Jack mimicked the whine and scramble.
“Jus’ you wait—yah!”
Piggy and the parody were so funny that the hunters began to laugh.
Jack felt encouraged. He went on scrambling and the laughter rose to a
gale of hysteria. Unwillingly Ralph felt his lips twitch; he was angry with
himself for giving way.
He muttered.
“That was a dirty trick.”
Jack broke out of his gyration and stood facing Ralph. His words came
in a shout.
“All right, all right!”
He looked at Piggy, at the hunters, at Ralph.
“I’m sorry. About the fire, I mean. There. I—”
He drew himself up.
“—I apologize.”
The buzz from the hunters was one of admiration at this handsome behavior.
Clearly they were of the opinion that Jack had done the decent thing,
had put himself in the right by his generous apology and Ralph,
obscurely, in the wrong. They waited for an appropriately decent answer.
Yet Ralph’s throat refused to pass one. He resented, as an addition
to Jack’s misbehavior, this verbal trick. The fire was dead, the ship was
gone. Could they not see? Anger instead of decency passed his throat.
“That was a dirty trick.”
They were silent on the mountain-top while the opaque look appeared
in Jack’s eyes and passed away.
Ralph’s final word was an ingracious mutter.
“All right. Light the fire.”
With some positive action before them, a little of the tension died.
Ralph said no more, did nothing, stood looking down at the ashes round
his feet. Jack was loud and active. He gave orders, sang, whistled, threw
remarks at the silent Ralph—remarks that did not need an answer, and
therefore could not invite a snub; and still Ralph was silent. No one,
not even Jack, would ask him to move and in the end they had to build
the fire three yards away and in a place not really as convenient. So
Ralph asserted his chieftainship and could not have chosen a better way
if he had thought for days. Against this weapon, so indefinable and so
effective, Jack was powerless and raged without knowing why. By the
time the pile was built, they were on different sides of a high barrier.
When they had dealt with the fire another crisis arose. Jack had no means of lighting it.
Then to his surprise, Ralph went to Piggy and took the glasses from him.
Not even Ralph knew how a link between him and Jack had been snapped and fastened elsewhere.
“I’ll bring ’em back.”
“I’ll come too.”
Piggy stood behind him, islanded in a sea of meaningless color, while
Ralph knelt and focused the glossy spot. Instantly the fire was alight,
Piggy held out his hands and grabbed the glasses back.
Before these fantastically attractive flowers of violet and red and yellow, unkindness melted away. They became a circle of boys round a camp
fire and even Piggy and Ralph were half-drawn in. Soon some of the boys
were rushing down the slope for more wood while Jack hacked the pig.
They tried holding the whole carcass on a stake over the fire, but the
stake burnt more quickly than the pig roasted. In the end they skewered
bits of meat on branches and held them in the flames: and even then
almost as much boy was roasted as meat.
Ralph’s dribbled. He meant to refuse meat, but his past diet of fruit and
nuts, with an odd crab or fish, gave him too little resistance. He accepted
a piece of half-raw meat and gnawed it like a wolf.
Piggy spoke, also dribbling.
“Aren’t I having none?”
Jack had meant to leave him in doubt, as an assertion of power; but
Piggy by advertising his omission made more cruelty necessary.
“You didn’t hunt.”
“No more did Ralph,” said Piggy wetly, “nor Simon.” He amplified.
“There isn’t more than a ha’porth of meat in a crab.”
Ralph stirred uneasily. Simon, sitting between the twins and Piggy,
wiped his mouth and shoved his piece of meat over the rocks to Piggy,
who grabbed it. The twins giggled and Simon lowered his face in shame.
Then Jack leapt to his feet, slashed off a great hunk of meat, and flung
it down at Simon’s feet.
“Eat! Damn you!”
He glared at Simon.
“Take it!”
He spun on his heel, center of a bewildered circle of boys.
“I got you meat!”
Numberless and inexpressible frustrations combined to make his rage
elemental and awe-inspiring.
“I painted my face—I stole up. Now you eat—all of you—and I—”
Slowly the silence on the mountain-top deepened till the click of the
fire and the soft hiss of roasting meat could be heard clearly. Jack looked
round for understanding but found only respect. Ralph stood among the
ashes of the signal fire, his hands full of meat, saying nothing.
Then at last Maurice broke the silence. He changed the subject to the
only one that could bring the majority of them together.
“Where did you find the pig?”
Roger pointed down the unfriendly side.
“They were there—by the sea.”
Jack, recovering could not bear to have his story told. He broke in
quickly.
“We spread round. I crept, on hands and knees. The spears fell out
because they hadn’t barbs on. The pig ran away and made an awful
noise—”
“It turned back and ran into the circle, bleeding—”
All the boys were talking at once, relieved and excited.
“We closed in—”
The first blow had paralyzed its hind quarters, so then the circle could
close in and beat and beat—
“I cut the pig’s throat—”
The twins, still sharing their identical grin, jumped up and ran round
each other. Then the rest joined in, making pig-dying noises and shouting.
“One for his nob!”
“Give him a fourpenny one!”
Then Maurice pretended to be the pig and ran squealing into the center,
and the hunters, circling still, pretended to beat him. As they danced,
they sang.
“Kill the pig. Cut her throat. Bash her in.”
Ralph watched them, envious and resentful. Not till they flagged and the chant died away, did he speak.
“I’m calling an assembly.”
One by one, they halted, and stood watching him.
“With the conch. I’m calling a meeting even if we have to go on into
the dark. Down on the platform. When I blow it. Now.”
He turned away and walked off, down the mountain.

